## A few quick notes…

There are a few kinds of projects that sort of fit into the landscape but won’t be covered much further here:

1. **Currencies:** Fundamentally, any token can operate as a currency because you can use it as a unit of account, a medium of exchange and/or a store of value. But a number of blockchains have been created to specifically act either as currencies (Bitcoin, Zcash, Monero…) or operate directly in the world of currencies (Ripple, Stellar, Libra). These are not general computation platforms, which we’re targeting here, so I’ll leave it at that.

2. **Private Chains:** Some blockchains, like Linux Foundation’s Hyperledger project or R3 Corda, are pitched to big companies as a more secure sort of blockchain because they allow those companies to control all of the nodes of the network. While NEAR also has the ability to provide privacy in its network shards, I’ll ignore this category of chains as well because the biggest security advantages come from broad public decentralization not building an oligopoly of a few big companies controlling the chain.

3. **“DAGs”:** This one is the trickiest because these chains play in the blockchain world and are, essentially, doing the same sort of thing — creating an immutable (append-only) ledger. They are called “DAGs” because of the computer science term “Directed Acyclic Graph”, which is the actual data structure that makes them up. Generally speaking, these projects, like IOTA, tend to build a complicated mess of transactions among lots of small devices, which functions a lot like a blockchain. It’s scalable but has a lot of security and implementation challenges. I won’t dig deeply into it here but don’t forget about DAGs because many chains, including NEAR, use a sort of smaller DAG somewhere in the process of building their blocks.
