## Quais são os casos de uso para a blockchain NEAR?

One of the hottest questions is what the use cases are for blockchains precisely because it hasn’t been definitively answered. Sure, it’s being used in everything from supply chain tracking to cross border payments, but most of these cases are still early enough that they haven’t achieved mainstream adoption. We’re still in a phase of trying new things to see what new primitives they unlock and how they extend.

In our case, we’re talking to hundreds of existing businesses and opportunistic entrepreneurs about how a truly scalable, usable blockchain can unlock new business opportunities. I won’t spoil the surprises by getting into that here but suffice it to say, there are a few burning areas where people are begging us to solve their problems and existing blockchains have been too slow or expensive or painful for users. A couple of areas to start include gaming and decentralized finance but that’s just the beginning.  In many cases, it starts by taking the things people already do on less performant chains — like Open Finance on Ethereum — and scaling them out to more potential users and uses by providing a more versatile and performant chain.

In the long run, just like with the original Internet revolution, the earliest use cases are likely just going to bridge the gap until people invent entirely new business models. So, while we’re excited about addressing things in the short term, we’re especially excited about building a toolkit that future entrepreneurs can combine with their creativity to change the world in ways we can’t even imagine now.

This is where new ideas around composability of microservices and open/transferrable state (a paradigm we call [the Open Web](https://near.org/blog/the-evolution-of-the-open-web/)) are really exciting. How different will it be to create businesses which sit atop a portfolio of open services rather than gated APIs and centralized platforms? These are new development paradigms that we’ve only scratched the surface of so far.
